Okay.
So why is our main nav component not rendering in the browser?
Well, just because we've created a component, just because we've created this reusable chunk of the
user interface doesn't mean that view is going to automatically put it on the screen.
After all, our app may have dozens, if not hundreds of different view components, and view doesn't
know where to render each one or in what order or how many times.
So we kind of have this template, but it's sitting unused in our app.
So how can we get this header up onto our screen?
Well, one component that we know is actually being rendered on the screen is app view.
As a reminder, this is our launching point.
This is our first component.
It's an H1 that has the text hello view.
And if I navigate back to my browser, we can see that that's what's being displayed on the screen.
As a quick reminder, the way this is happening is we have our main JS file right here and this is the
file that is mounting the view app into our plain HTML document.
So right here we are importing our app component from app app view.
And then this syntax right here is mounting it into the div with an idea of app.
We talked about that a little bit earlier in the course, but the key takeaway here is that app is being
rendered on the screen.
So if we can find a way to tell the app component to render main nav, then we'll get what we want.
We'll get Main NAV render to the screen.
It's going to be a two step process to enable this.
In fact, I think even more than that.
But it's going to take a couple steps for us to import May NAV into this file, register it with our
app component and then actually display it in the HTML.
So the first step is to import the main nav component.
And whenever you hear the words import, you're probably thinking JavaScript.
And hopefully by now, whenever you hear the words JavaScript, your mind should immediately say, okay,
that's something that's going to live in the script section, right?
This is where we're going to write any JavaScript that we need for a view component, right?
In comparison to the template tags where we have any HTML.
So this is JavaScript.
So we're going to put it inside our script tags and we're going to import our main nav component.
And as a reminder, we have this app symbol available that represents the top of our SIRC or source
directory.
Inside that folder we have a components folder and inside our components folder we have a single component
which is main NAV and I'm just going to let it auto complete.
You'll notice that it auto completed with the file extension dot view.
That's totally fine.
It's actually optional view will recognize view components even if you exclude the extension.
But I like to leave it on just to remind myself that it is a view component.
All right.
I'm going to add a semicolon here.
Just quiet, prettier down.
Okay.
So we have imported May nav, but we are not yet using it.
So we have to configure our app component to be able to render main nav onto the screen.
All right.
So whenever you hear the words configuration for any kind of view component, immediately you should
think about the object that we're exporting here out of this file.
Remember, every view component is going to have some bit of HTML and it's going to have some bit of
logic that we write in JavaScript.
So here is our configuration object for the app component and here I can add an additional property
and its name is pretty logical actually.
Its name is going to be components.
And so this is where we're going to register other components with our app component.
And when I use the word register, what I mean is I'm going to enable the app component to render whatever
components I put here inside this component's key.
The value here is actually going to be a JavaScript object, and the way it works is like this the property
where the key is going to be a string and a name that represents what we want to write in our HTML in
order to render a given component.
So for example, if I want to render my main nav component, but I want to write it out as whatever
I could write.
For example, whatever has my key, then provide a value of the main nav component.
And what that means is in my channel right here I can write whatever like so and that will be my view
component name, right?
So we can give it whatever name we want to in the context of this app component.
But obviously, since it's generally not a good idea to give one component two names, you're typically
going to render it in the HTML with the exact same name as it's actually named, because that just avoids
the unneeded complexity.
So what I'm going to do is provide it with a name of May now, and I'm going to set the value of this
property to be the actual imported main nav component that we have right here.
So by registering this, we now say that the app component can render a main nav component somewhere
in its HTML.
You'll notice, of course, that we have a little bit of an East Island violation, and if I hover my
mouse over, it says the main nav component has been registered, which is great news but not used.
And view, of course here makes sense.
It says, hey, you've told app that it can do something with May nav, it can render it, but you're
not actually rendering it.
That's a waste of imports and that's a waste of registrations.
So obviously the next step is to take this me NAV and render it somewhere in our template.
So I'm going to remove our former H1.
And there's actually several different, different ways that we can render a view component.
We'll talk about those variations in the next lesson.
But for now, the easiest way to think about it is no different than your typical HTML element.
So if you have a div, we know that we have an opening div and automatically a closing div with the
slash, right?
Different elements work differently, but this is a very common thing.
And for now, let's let's treat it this way.
For our main nav component so we can think of May now, now almost like its own new HTML element that
we've introduced into the app.
And we're going to write it out the exact same way as we write any other environment.
So we're going to open it up, we're going to write Main NAV, then we're going to put a closing bracket
and you can see automatically the V code has filled in the second half for me.
I'm just going to write it out myself just so we practice, right?
We're going to start with almost our opening tag, like our opening div, but it's going to be main
nav and then we're going to provide the closing slash and may nav and close it.
Now make sure the spelling here is the exact same as it is right here.
So I have a capital M and a capital and so I'm going to write it out this way right here.
I'm going to save the file and prettier is going to add some additional things like commas here.
But now we are rendering a single main nav component in app that view.
And what does main nav render?
It renders that header with the text of May nav.
So if I go back to my browser.
Now we have the main nav component up here, right here.
This is a tremendous success.
We have gotten our app component to render our main nav component and thus render its may now into a
browser.
Right.
Now here's the beautiful part of view, and the idea of reusable components is that components can be
reused often and repeatedly as often as you need them.
So, for example, if I copy and paste this code below and just paste it three times and save this file
and then go back to look at my browser, we now have three main nav components being rendered, which
of course equivalently is three HTML header elements being rendered in to out.
Right.
And obviously this is a very simple and stupid example, but the idea here is that now we can use components
to create these reusable small chunks of business logic and the corresponding chunk of each HTML, the
corresponding chunk of the user interface, and then reuse them as often as needed and even customize
or tweak each one a little bit slightly if we needed to be somewhat different from the others.
Right now, these are all identical, but the idea is we have a reusable chunk of code, almost like
we've created a new HTML element that does something for us in this case, render a header.
All right.
That's all there is to cover.
In this lesson, we imported our main nav component.
We registered it with our app component by using the components key on the app components configuration
object.
We talked about the key here, representing the text that's going to be rendered here inside the actual
HTML.
So again, if this is whatever we would write, whatever here instead and the value for the property
is going to be the actual component that Vue should render whenever we use this value.
And then of course, one other thing I of course, forgot to mention is here we have a convenient use
of ES6 syntax where our property name is the same as our value name.
And if you're familiar with E6, you know that you can actually simplify this down to this expression,
which is going to be just the name by itself.
This tells E6 create a property with a key of May NAV and associate it with some kind of name, like
a variable or an import in your program.
There's also called May now, so that's a little bit of a simpler way to accomplish what we just did,
and that keeps the same result.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.